well first i want to thank you so much
well first I want to thank you so much
for inviting me to the speaker series
it's an honor to be here and thank you
to anka for pulling this together the
coordination of things like this is no
no small feat and we're very lucky to
have her
as part of the Stellar development
foundation pulling these things together
for the next gen initiative
today I'm going to talk to you about
open networks and digital assets i know
open networks and digital assets I know
that billy explained kind of the ins and
outs of of blockchain in general
if you haven't seen that first
that first video it is on the Stellar
next gen discord channel so feel free to
take a look if you missed that
but billy grannis gave a great talk and
something to kind of get you started
today I'm going to talk to you about
what we do at Stellar development
foundation which we call sdf for short
and then we'll kind of dive into the
applications and use cases of blockchain
and specifically Stellar I'm going to do
probably 10 or 15 slides I'm not sure
where the marker is exactly and then
kind of pause for questions and they'll
have more extended time for q a at
the end
so yeah and if there's any technical
difficulty that you can't see or
something like that jump in anytime
but yeah I'm I'm excited to be here
so my name is aydah vaughn and i work in
so my name is aydah vaughn and I work in
marketing and communications but i've
had several years of my career here
in blockchain and crypto both as
a business developer and in the area
of partnerships so i've worked with a
lot of different companies in the space
and really excited to be here today to
talk to you about Stellar from the sdf
so let's get started
the Stellar development foundation is
a non-profit entity
and we are solely tasked with
supporting and maintaining the Stellar
network
so the Stellar network
and the Stellar development foundation
exist to create equitable access to the
global financial system so how do we do
that
we do it in three main ways
we make money more fluid
markets more open and people more
empowered
and the foundation helps maintain
Stellar's code base by supporting the
technical and business communities
around Stellar providing thought
leadership to regulators and other
stakeholders and physically maintaining
Stellar's code base
so everything sdf does is aimed at
making the network as a whole stronger
and making it a success in its mission
so I'm clicking on two screens here
Stellar itself is a decentralized open
network that connects the world's
financial infrastructure so blockchains
can be used for a lot of different
things but Stellar is purpose built for
connecting financial systems
and it does that because of its speed
and its scale
that can be used for the Stellar
blockchain to transfer value
the exciting thing about blockchain as a
technology in general and Stellar is one
of these chains
is that it makes it possible to
move money in new ways
blockchain makes it possible to create
send and trade digital representations
also called tokens you'll hear me say
tokens and tokenization to mean this
digital representation of all forms of
money
whether it's a dollar a peso
a bitcoin it can be anything so it's
designed so that all the world's
financial systems can work together and
travel value on a single network
so let's talk about who exactly uses
Stellar
there are a lot of stakeholders involved
and because Stellar is an open and
permissionless network really anyone can
build anything they can imagine on
Stellar
to create impact on the global financial
system of today Stellar is purpose built
for working with it so we look to extend
and not replace the world's existing
financial infrastructure
so businesses that want to pay for goods
and services across borders banks and
fintechs that want to quickly process
payments and move assets
exchanges that are making for example
on-chain liquidity with blockchain more
accessible
and of course the developers who are
building and integrating digital
infrastructure across these financial
systems
governments are interested in Stellar
and we have a lot of communications
where we speak with regulators
and kind of inform or try to inform
policy makers decisions about blockchain
technology
and then of course consumers who want to
send receive and grow their hard earned
money really everyone
since entities can offer financial
products and services and take advantage
of these features
to build better solutions to real world
problems Stellar is uniquely useful
so how do they do it
we'll talk about that
there are three main things that people
do on Stellar
where it adds utility to these processes
the first is that in order to move an
asset on Stellar it has to be tokenized
so tokenization of assets is a digital
representation it could be what we call
fiat assets like a regular currency a
dollar a euro a british pound a peso
then once they have that value they need
to hold it and they may want to
diversify it so they may start out with
a us dollar tokenized on Stellar but
want to move to a mexican peso for
example or they may want to send money
to someone who when they receive it
wants to change it to a different form
of value
one of the things about blockchain and
the reason why it's so valuable for
financial systems is that it's immutable
so
in the case of new technologies for
moving money there's a high motivation
to tamper
with these technologies and because
blockchain is so strong in terms of its
immutability its inability to be changed
and the ability to monitor it
it has a particularly high use high
value in this use case
the third thing that people do once they
have assets on Stellar is they want to
send an exchange as i was saying going
send an exchange as I was saying going
across border making a payment to a
business in another country or even
sending peer-to-peer remittances so i
can send you money if you're in a
different country and i can use Stellar
different country and I can use Stellar
to move that value
so the first step I'm going to go
through these these three main
ways that Stellar is used and we'll
start out with tokenization so you might
wonder
how does a dollar get on to Stellar and
that is this process called tokenization
in order to have a universal payment
network where value can move everything
has to be in this form of a token
and so tokens are a redeemable tradable
representation of any asset and it only
takes a few lines of code to do it on
Stellar token issuance is really the
backbone of the Stellar network and it's
how we connect all the world's
currencies and systems it's what Stellar
was built for
asset issuance is also flexible
you can issue a token that represents
anything from
an ounce of gold
to a piece of art
to
an hour of your time as a consultant
could be a real asset could be a service
it's up to you
today I'm going to talk to you about two
main types of assets which are
these like
non-currency assets i'll call them so
things that are not a dollar not a peso
things like
the the bit of your time or a piece
of art
those are non-currency assets and then
we'll also talk about fiat-backed assets
and the utility for those
i love this example so
I love this example so
you know so much of the internet and
so much of technology has grown around
entertainment right
this is an example of a game plan game
platform that started with a card game
and the cards were able to be traded
inside the game
and used as assets so they had value
only inside the game
and lightning is a tech company they
call themselves a tech company that
creates innovative products to connect
crypto enthusiasts and gamers to unique
experiences
lightman started off with a site called
lightmint.io
and this was this is a little screenshot
of their game
their cards were collectible on the
Stellar blockchain and then when their
community wanted a place to start to
trade their cards and interact with one
another with the card's value that's
when the idea of an nft marketplace came
to life so do you all have the
ability to raise your hand on your let
me see i should have asked at the
me see I should have asked at the
beginning to raise your hand so how many
folks have heard of an nft
okay so now for all the people who
have ever owned an nft
keep your hand up
fewer right
so game platforms and nfts are used
enlightenment
and it allows creators as you may have
heard nft stands for a non-fungible
token and a non-fungible token is a unit
of value that cannot be divided so if
you have an nft that represents an
avatar that you drew or
a service you're providing whatever it
is you cannot split the nft and it has a
a single representation and a single
owner
and but they can be traded so this
is an example of a game platform that
uses nfts and it's it's pretty neat
because
the Stellar network is very very cheap
to operate unlike some of the other
major blockchains and so creators can
create can make an nft that costs five
or ten or twenty or or even a dollar and
because the cost of transactions on
Stellar is so low that really anyone can
do this which is pretty neat it's
another layer of kind of
inclusion in Stellar that is is pretty
fun and it allows for a very flexible
and movable kind of nft
so on a more serious note tokenization
of securities
i think so i'll do the same question
I think so i'll do the same question
like how many of you own a security own
a stock probably everyone right everyone
in the room probably owns some sort of
security
and i think in
and I think in
go ahead let's see is it every single
person that's got to be right everyone's
got something something in their
portfolio hopefully
there are some people that raise their
hands
can you see them ada yes i can see i i
can you see them ada yes I can see I i
see a seat there's a sea of hands yes i
can't i can see that nearly everyone or
can't I can see that nearly everyone or
maybe everyone has owned a stock
you probably have not owned a
tokenized stock and the reason for that
is that we live in a high income economy
where we have very easy access to high
quality securities on you know i can go
quality securities on you know I can go
on e-trade almost any of us can open an
account at a fidelity or an e-trade or
charles schwab any of these brokerage
houses will welcome our business and and
allow us to buy securities and enter
into other kinds of investment
opportunities
however in the rest of the world
especially in emerging markets
it is not that way at all we can buy
a share of tesla or apple anytime we
want but if someone who is living let's
say in a small town in latin america or
in sub-saharan africa or other parts of
the world they simply don't have
access to these kinds of assets and so
tokenization of securities is a really
interesting use case for blockchain and
for Stellar specifically I'm going to
show you an example of it
but it whether it's stock or real estate
these kinds of assets again they're not
money they're different than a currency
asset but they can be tokenized in very
similar to securities that can be
tokenized into shares and tokens on
Stellar so I'm going to show you an
example of a company called d stock
they have kind of a fun spelling of
their name
and give you an idea of how that
works so they are a
company that offers access to
stocks like apple and tesla like you
can see here in emerging markets they
also allow micro investing so you can
buy a fraction of a share for someone
who maybe only can invest you know 10
euros or 20 euros
and this is a really unique way to
expand assets
expand access to high quality
assets that otherwise they would not be
able to reach
and and they can also securely trade
them so inside this
app is available in europe
vietnam south africa there are a
number of markets where people can then
trade these fractional shares and so
it's kind of a marketplace in and of
itself
and it's pretty it's a pretty
interesting use case for financial
inclusion
here's one more this company is called
realty bets and again realty bits is
a marketplace on Stellar and they have
built-in infrastructure where people can
invest in
opportunities like
startups like real estate they started
out realtyvis story
is that they started out with their name
as you might imagine mainly doing real
estate but then they had these verified
you know sponsors and investors involved
in their platform and realized that they
could do a lot more and so they expanded
to other types of of assets and it
allows for cap table management
it just really simplifies the whole
process you know normally to invest in a
private asset
it's quite a clunky process you know
if there's a private equity manager and
they got to talk to this person talk to
that person it's very slow there's a lot
of friction and it's very expensive and
so this just promotes a lot of
efficiency and these kind of investor
sponsor relationships and streamlines
the whole process so realty bits built
this platform and it offers users
access to investments that they again
wouldn't ordinarily see or where
investing
maybe in a small way would be too
cumbersome so it gives them a faster
on-ramp so as you can see from these use
cases
any any company it's open source any
company can issue any kind of asset they
want on Stellar
so now we're going to talk about well my
slides have gone crazy sorry
now we're going to talk about
the
use case for fiat currencies
who here has heard of the term stable
coin
couple people
how about okay so keep your so now I'm
gonna ask another one you can lower your
hand and then how about cbdc
i can say it so fast because i say it a
I can say it so fast because I say it a
lot cbdc
okay a few people not many
stablecoin stablecoin is a relatively
new term
when you tokenize an asset on Stellar
and it happens to be a fiat currency
we call it a stable coin and what that
means is because blockchain assets
grew up in this world of coins like
bitcoin everything's a coin something's
a coin
stable coins are meant to mean that they
are
always tied in a one-to-one relationship
with their underlying fiat
currency so one let's say usdc which
is a us dollar stable coin we'll talk
about in a minute is always worth one
u.s dollar and redeemable for that
dollar
so stable coins are that kind they
can be any representing any of the
world's currencies but they always
remain stable to the value one coin is
one dollar or one coin is one british
pound just like that
in the case of cbdc's this is a
relatively new
development in blockchain so there
are country probably i want to say 60 to
are country probably I want to say 60 to
80 projects pilot projects going on
around the world and then there are a
few
that are starting to i think to like
that are starting to I think to like
roll out and get beyond pilot stage but
the idea of a cbdc which stands for
central bank digital currency
is beyond a stable coin so these are a
type of stable coin that a central
bank issues the asset
and what that would mean is that that
central banker
can retain control
control of their monetary policy
and that they can control the economics
and security and functions and there's
some programmability on Stellar a lot of
really neat features
but cbdcs are a form of digital currency
that are meant to be controlled by a
central bank just like ordinary fiat
money so kind of central it keeps that
central control over the monetary policy
oh my hand is raised i can't see who
oh my hand is raised I can't see who
raised their hand
are your hands still up from the cbdc
question
if anyone has a question go ahead and
jump right in and speak
so i can't see all of you
so I can't see all of you
yeah my bad i think i just left it up
yeah my bad I think I just left it up
oh no problem
all right great so we are going to talk
about usdc
the
the oh and i should probably mention
the oh and I should probably mention
anchors before i get any further so
anchors before I get any further so
cbdc's and stable coins as i said are
cbdc's and stable coins as I said are
representations of
regular money so when you have a regular
dollar you give it to an asset issuer
and they give you a token
and those issuers we call in the
Stellar network we call them anchors and
that is because they anchor the fiat
value to the token
and so they're a very important part of
the system of onboarding value
and off-boarding value to the Stellar
network and you'll hear more about
anchors in just a minute
one really important anchor
is usdc circle I'm sorry my slides are
so jumpy i need a better mouse
so jumpy I need a better mouse
the in this this graph is actually a
little bit out of data i believe we have
little bit out of data I believe we have
surpassed today 40 billion usdc in
circulation
so usd stan usdc stands for usd coin
as i said many things are a coin
as I said many things are a coin
in our world
usdc is issued by regulate regulated
financial institutions it's backed one
to one by u.s dollars and it's governed
by a consortium called center
centre
i think someone went off mute for a
I think someone went off mute for a
second
and so there are these kind of technical
and policy standards financial standards
for stable coins usdc is always a dollar
and it's available on multiple
networks too which is one of the reasons
i think for its fast growth it has
I think for its fast growth it has
transferred on chain over a trillion
dollars
in in a year basically and so there's
a lot of movement of usdc it's super
useful as a way of moving value
without losing value because it's always
stable it's a stable coin
and the usdnc in circulation has been
growing all the time as i said i think
growing all the time as I said I think
it's over 40 billion
right now
so
these anchors as i was saying
these anchors as I was saying
are both the on and off ramps of value
and you can kind of see an example of
some of the Stellar
anchors around the world in this slide
so in addition to usdc there are other
us dollar stable coins that are issued
as well from the u.s
as well as argentine pesos there are
euros there's nigerian naira
philippine pesos
there there are lots more and so
especially when
you have this
transition between currencies and when
one of those currencies is
i'll say difficult or less liquid
if you've ever traveled someplace in
the world where it was sort of a
currency you don't use as much
those kinds of currencies have a lot of
friction and transition people tend to
pay very high fees
and so connecting those financial
systems with Stellar has a huge benefit
for the citizens there and those anchors
in the local area serve as an on and off
ramp for value to the network so they
accept the local currency they pay the
local currency and then they trans they
can onboard it and keep it in that
currency or can change on its way
so when they
do you have a question
let's see another race yeah i had to go
let's see another race yeah I had to go
ahead generally or like cbdc's yeah
and so i was wondering if a lot of the
and so I was wondering if a lot of the
hype around like crypto is about how
it's decentralized but cbdc's are like
regulated and issued by like central
banks how do they fit into the
picture of like cryptocurrency in
general
yeah that's a good question
so assets are all are
issued assets like stable coins are
typically issued by a single source so
even
you know center is a consortium of
companies but circle is the issuer of
usdc so the all the
value is sitting in a centralized place
i think
I think
the difference and what we are trying to
push for also
with cbdc's is to have them
have the ability to move on an open and
permissionless network
so we care a lot about the network
versus the asset issuance i mean it's
versus the asset issuance I mean it's
great it's easy and and secure and
there's a lot of great features issuing
assets on Stellar we absolutely want
people to do that but in terms of our
global financial inclusion goals
in the space of cbdc's we really want
these assets to be changeable and to be
able to travel on to be by changeable i
mean interoperable so they can travel
between
geographies
and
and to be able to be used by anyone
and i think actually central banks want
and I think actually central banks want
the same thing they want
access for everyone that's a it's a
large concern they want security they
want access we're actually getting ready
to
publish a a study a kind of a deep
research paper on cbdc's probably before
the end of the year fingers crossed
that anka can definitely hook you up to
if you're interested in learning more
about the details of policy frameworks
for cbdc's it's pretty intricate stuff
any other questions go ahead
jump in
hi hello thank you adam i was just
hi hello thank you adam I was just
having a question about
how the anchor system works so the
way i understand it you go to the anchor
way I understand it you go to the anchor
with a hundred bucks
i'll give it to thank god they gave me
back hundred tokens
would these anchors be holding off
hundred bucks like in their reserve or
would they be
holding one certain one portion of it
and using the rest for investments
like a bank does and is that how they
make their fees
it's an insightful question yes so most
anchors do charge a fee
to convert from the fiat
whatever fiat you're giving them to
the tokenized asset and they are
anchors are regulated financial
institutions so
while they're
you know across the world for example
like a famous a famous and very
criticized stable coin called tether
usdt
people are very critical of their
reserve of their policies around the
reserve and they ask for audits and
things like that i think
things like that I think
in general blockchain is fairly
transparent and companies that and
Stellar is this way too very open and
transparent about policies and what you
know how they manage funds and exactly
what their reserves are and where their
reserves are
we insist on
companies that become anchors on
Stellar have to identify themselves they
have you know they're kind of a
trusted financial institution in their
own market
and they all have to comply with
their own local regulations but our
expectation is that they are fully
reserved assets
we
we are an open network and so anyone can
use it and it's definitely up to the
user and the consumer to make sure that
they're making smart decisions but we
really look to hold our anchors to a
high bar
well then if one of the anchors go down
would that mean
other anchors have to help save them or
is this connected network or are they
all by themselves because if they're not
they're just like individual banks small
banks
that just
exchange between fifth way off fiat
money and tokens
everything
they are msb so they are money service
businesses or fintech so they're like a
neobank they're like a bank in their
local area for sure they actually act
like a local bank
so they're prone to the same risks of a
bank going bankrupt because of that
investments
potentially although
tokenizing i would say that anchors are
tokenizing I would say that anchors are
the on and off ramp and i would use the
the on and off ramp and I would use the
word ramp because you don't usually hang
out on a ramp right when you go on the
highway you get on and you go and you go
where you're going and when you get off
you get off you don't park on the ramp
and stay there so i think most of the
and stay there so I think most of the
time value is moving through the anchor
and it's on its way somewhere else so
i think still the majority of the use
I think still the majority of the use
cases that we're looking at for
these kind of cross-border payments they
all start in some kind of fiat and end
in some kind of fiat so
you know and this can happen in you know
seconds or minutes when it arrives at
the destination generally speaking
people are going to land the value in
their bank account for
in cash sometimes and so that means the
transaction happened and it's done you
have your you have your value ready
thank you so much ata
sure
jim did you have a question or comment
no i think i left my hand up just
no I think I left my hand up just
saying okay
hi
nice to see you again so yes all of
all of the anchors just to sum up on
that question all the anchors are
maintaining these fiat reserves once
they onboard value to the network
equal to the tokens that they've issued
on Stellar and then anytime people
redeem or pass to another anchor then
that's how the value will move and
eventually land and be out again
our vision for Stellar is this
you know better connections better
interoperability for a world where you
know we see globalization happening
but the access to financial services is
still fairly unequal
you know
when usdc kind of
moves through the economy
the underlying dollars are still sitting
in the bank but we're enabling all of
this commerce there's economic activity
people can loan you know tokens to one
another
there's no intermediaries or banks you
know taking a piece of each transaction
along the way so there's a lot less
friction and
we're really envisioning blockchain as
enabling this this more connected more
interoperable world
the next thing so that was all about
asset issuance getting value on to the
Stellar network
I'm going to pause here for a second if
there's any other questions before we
talk about holding and diversifying the
value on Stellar any other questions
all right
holding and diversifying value on
Stellar
you know
anyone who has value on the network
needs a place to keep track of it
when you move money you're used to this
right when using a bank anytime you move
money you move it into the bank then you
take it out use it or spend it
but
accounts on Stellar work differently
even though we call them accounts
they really are just a marker in the
ledger that says what belongs to you so
this is and I'm sure billy talked about
this too this is distributed ledger
technology so on the ledger it says you
own
this five dollars let's say this five
usdc belongs to jim it's in his wallet
and everyone knows it's in his wallet
because it's on the shared ledger and
then when he wants to spend it there's a
transaction that sends it from his
wallet to someone else's wallet
and so as you might imagine these
digital wallets which which are
different than a you know a cash wallet
that you use
you know unlike a physical wallet
they are they don't contain the money
they really are just
showing you a vision of you know a view
of the ledger of where your money is
noted in the ledger
and so they don't really store assets
but they give you access and they give
you the ability to
to control it
wallets also connect to anchors so when
you do walk in with your cash or send a
send a bank transfer to an anchor to get
those tokens you need to have a wallet
to land that value coming out of the
anchor and tokens
there are a lot of different wallets
wallets have to be compatible with
the blockchains that those assets move
on
so lobster is an example of a Stellar
compatible wallet and it gives users
access to any asset on Stellar so
whether you've tokenized a enlightenment
card or a bar of gold or
or 100 usdc on Stellar all of those are
available to be seen in a with a lobster
wallet and it has a mobile and a web
version
it's very clean design we really like
and recommend lobster
and it's also very kind of open-ended so
it can be used for all these different
kinds of assets
as we look at these fiat currencies and
the things that you can do with them
in your diversifying value
i really love this example of another
I really love this example of another
wallet that is that is purpose-built for
a very specific use case and this
wallet is called leaf global
leaf runs it can run on actually a
like a low feature phone as well it's
been deployed in kenya rwanda and uganda
since for about a year september 2020
and it
enables people who don't have a bank
account don't have an address and who
are completely disconnected from the
sort of traditional financial system to
hold val hold spend and send value
is really designed for refugees
cross-border traders and the
financially marginalized people who for
whatever reason cannot get a regular
bank account
and so it's really accessible
you know everything from the different
languages that it has the ways that it
identifies people
you would be surprised how difficult it
is to pass these traditional what we
call kyc know your customer checks in
sort of ordinary financial services
and so
it's a it is a terrific help for
refugees because they also are very
vulnerable to
to robbery when they have to carry
cash it can be dangerous especially when
crossing borders
so they really have a safety issue that
is solved by the leaf wallet
and and it just it empowers them to
hold and keep value when they need it
most
so once someone has a place to hold
value in their wallet then we can think
about ways to diversify it
there's d stock we talked about
equitable access to various kinds of
investments
earning yield is something that has come
into the forefront with
all different kinds of crypto but
in particular you can earn yield on
stable coins and so
let's say for example i live in
let's say for example I live in
argentina
or
or venezuela or zimbabwe or other places
that have had severe problems with their
currencies with crypto like with a
stable coin i can save in u.s dollars
stable coin I can save in u.s dollars
and i can also deposit that in
and I can also deposit that in
different kinds of wallets that are
in yield so it is such a wonderful hedge
against inflation especially i mean we
against inflation especially I mean we
see inflation here i think the
see inflation here I think the
numbers that came out for october were
over six percent i think we have right
over six percent I think we have right
now in the us
6.2 annualized inflation it's sky high
you know a gallon of milk cost about
a dollar in 1968 and today it's almost
four dollars so you can see the effects
of inflation are dramatic
if you don't have your money invested if
you're in those marginalized communities
where you're not able to
invest
then you are very vulnerable to
inflation
and so
vibrant is a great example of in in
argentina
and across latin america people can
save in u.s dollars and
the banks they're maybe the very
wealthy can save in u.s dollars or keep
value
in us dollars but it's not available to
the average person and so vibrant is a
super useful app for people to keep
value in us dollars and even earn on
their balances it's a super easy
platform to use and it's built on
Stellar
so finally we're going to talk about
sending and exchanging assets I'm really
sorry for these jumpy slides
sending and exchanging assets is one of
the things that Stellar's is uniquely
suited to do
because of the way it's structured and
because it's an open and permissionless
network there are lots of pathways
how value can move
one of the most
useful
kinds of
applications that we see is cross-border
payments and remittances because you are
able to send send fiat value once it's
tokenized on Stellar and have it change
along the way
into another
store value
so these cross-currency transactions are
really
very efficient on Stellar and part of
that is due to what's called
a built-in dex so
a dex is a decentralized exchange
and what that means is that there's an
order book
similar to a stock exchange or other
kinds of exchanges where
assets can be traded for one another
based on a bid and an ask price so
this is
just kind of a representation of a
typical order book on the decks we
recently released another piece of
technology called automated market
makers which also allows assets to be
changed on the fly and improves the
efficiency of Stellar
i think when i said you can send
I think when I said you can send
currency in one
send from one currency to another
that that is kind of a unique thing
about Stellar and we do it with this
thing called a pass payment which can go
through the decks or it can go through
the amms
the automated market makers and these
path payments work
from so if you kind of look at this
map they start out
they can start out in the philippine
peso
change to us dollars to lumens or
nigerian neighbors and and along the way
they can make many hops into different
currencies as needed and land in the
value of that the receiver wants
both sides only get the currency that
they want to deal with sorry lucian's
asleep so
i think somebody went off mute
I think somebody went off mute
but this allows for a lot of flexibility
and different use cases on Stellar
so let's look at a cross-border payments
and remittances
this is an enormous market
37 trillion in 2020 and 39 trillion by
2026 is predicted
one of the real areas of friction is
as i was saying in emerging markets
as I was saying in emerging markets
where cross-border payments and
remittances can cost 10 percent so the
people who need the money the most are
actually paying the highest fees for
these transactions
and you know whether they are migrant
workers sending money home businesses
paying remote staff
suppliers getting paid by customers
there's all this friction when
transacting between different currencies
intermediaries all take a piece
and
you know starting with the payer's bank
and ending in the account of the
recipient is usually many steps each
cost
some money and time so it tends to be
very slow
because of globalization and our you
know increasing tendency to do business
across borders a lot of fintechs and
large multinational companies are
looking for new ways to do cross-border
payments they're really pushing in this
in this regard and b2b payments are a
strong use case on Stellar there's
there's a lot of this type of
transactions on the Stellar network
here's a look at kind of the existing
landscape for payments
so if you're in europe you might use
the sepa inside of europe sepa
payments are really you know quick and
efficient and cheap but once you want to
try to send money overseas then you're
riding on swift or some other you know
some other
rail if you're inside the us you
might use an ach which you know takes a
few days but it's pretty dependable
pretty cheap
the problem is that none of these
payment
kind of systems are interoperable so i
can't send a step up payment to an ach
recipient in another country
and so you know in the 1970s they stood
up this
system called swift
and it was it stands for the society
for worldwide interbank financial
telecommunications so it's kind of a
mouthful but swift payments were
established out of brussels with certain
standards where all these member banks
could send money to each other
but swift was never really built frankly
for individuals it never never served
peer-to-peer very well it's pretty slow
and it's a closed system so only
banks can participate you can't have
a fintech just jump in and initiate a
swift payment they have to use a bank to
do it so sending funds cross-border
is usually super slow and
incurs a lot of fees
so you know one way that companies
deal with this is they just open bank
accounts and all the geographies where
they do business which can work
especially if it's just one or two
geographies maybe and it's a very large
company
you can establish operations and get a
bank account wherever it is that you
want to land value and then pre-fund
your transactions in that geography but
now you're holding capital in all these
different markets
and and you're also exposing yourself
to forex to currency risk you know
between the currencies that you're
holding so you know traditional
you know cross-border payments for
businesses
can be
pretty much a pain i will say
pretty much a pain I will say
you know they they start with
this let's say a service provider issues
this invoice
and then the customer goes to pay them
so they wire their money to a
correspondent bank the correspondent
bank receives the money sends it to the
receiving bank you know so there's a lot
of different steps and some of them
are even manual so you have like actual
paperwork and things that are seem
archaic to us now
the typical time to settle a transaction
like this is two to five business days
depending on the geography and this is
counting on having developed pretty much
developed countries on both funds
fees can run
anywhere to five or six percent
the way that Stellar manages
cross-border payments is a little
different as you might imagine so still
the service provider issues that invoice
but instead the customer pays an anchor
in their home currency so
the anchor is responsible for onboarding
that value and sending it to an anchor
in the destination country
and then
that anchor in the destination country
pays out the fiat value in the local
currency to the receiving bank
so here you have a frictionless
blockchain based pathway for payments
with local partners to provide the on
and off ramps for fiat and the effect is
the same it's just a lot cheaper and a
lot faster
still the service provider is paying and
the receiving bank is receiving
for for the supplier
but
there's no intermediary bank fees in all
of these steps
and they're all dealing in their local
currencies as well
so the
this kind of replaces the process of the
international wire and the currency
conversion in a single pathway
d transfer is an example of an app that
allows companies to do this and kind of
shows the pathway along the way for b2b
payments between currencies
their fees are something like one-tenth
of a traditional bank and so it's a
pretty high utility it's connected to
banking networks in europe the us
mexico brazil tanzania
expanding through europe asia africa and
the americas now
click pesa is
ClickPesa is
another example that
deals with the intra-african the high
fees inside africa so i think i
fees inside africa so I think i
mentioned a fee of 10
in africa
paying between countries in africa can
be
is definitely in the double digits it
can be 15 fees 18 fees between
african countries and so click pesa
african countries and so ClickPesa
gives companies that operate in africa
the ability to accept payments online in
a b2b payment platform and provides the
on and off ramps for tanzanian and
kenyon banks
finally remittances we're going to talk
about
the remittance market which is
you know a very high impact area for
financial inclusion because many many
countries in the world have a large
percentage of their gdp coming in in
remittances their families all over the
globe that depend on remit says for to
survive to live and each year about half
a trillion dollars of value is
transferred cross-border through
personal remittances
in most cases they're small they're you
know 200 to 500
and they average cost is somewhere
around seven percent in in between
developing economies like i was
developing economies like I was
mentioning in africa they'll be over 10
typically so you have traditional
money transfer organizations but
they're not as efficient as they could
be they're not as fast as they could be
and with you know the insertion of
correspondent banks and kind of the
older payment rails
there's definitely a lot of
opportunities for improvement and so we
really see this
Stellar powered remittances as a huge
advantage
these are just a couple tempo and arf
that enable remittances
tempo is located in paris and arf is
in istanbul and they enable remittances
to happen
in a much more seamless way across
europe
and
tempo has other pathways to to africa
an additional location so it's really
pretty exciting to see these remittance
use cases come to life
finally I'm going to show you
one of our most exciting developments at
Stellar is the use of moneygram so you
may be who's heard of moneygram curious
it's a it's a pretty large business but
they're
primarily involved so here's a couple
people who have heard of the company
moneygram
so they are a
money services business that allows
people to send
money around the globe typically person
to person
and so what we've done with moneygram
in this recent partnership is connected
digital wallets to moneygrams so that
people have a pathway for
cash in and cash out using the money
gram physical locations and the value
moves on Stellar
and what's really cool about this is you
have people who need to receive money in
cash for example in latin america
because that's how they primarily you
know live and transact
but they may not have a bank account
so they might not have a way to get the
cash out and so using these money
transfer services we're able to leverage
moneygrams retail locations along with
the efficiency and speed of the Stellar
network to get remittances
get cash in the hands of people
much faster
the partnership just started and so
there's going to be a pilot and i'll
actually i'll mention in case anka
hasn't already
that we're going to be giving a demo
and a lot more information about this
partnership at our conference called
meridian which is completely free
it's november 17th and 18th next week so
if you're interested in Stellar
technology and you know we have debates
and there's a lot of interesting stuff
feel free to register you're all
invited to attend and and of course
stay in touch
and depending on your interests too if
you have more technical interests or
more business oriented interests there
are kind of different tracks so
there's two days
of you know presentations and
opportunities to interact with
with sdf
we like to think of our
our ecosystem we call it an ecosystem
right because there are companies
sdf is really just here to support and
foster the Stellar network but now there
are all these companies all over the
world that are plugged in
and we see this as an approach of
driving global financial inclusion
rooted in global collaboration
and so all of these companies whether
they are wallets exchanges
money transfer businesses payments
businesses wallets they're all they're
all participating in this ecosystem
and whether businesses focus on one use
case or they combine different use cases
together
to meet the needs of their target
customers there's just a lot of
innovation going on on Stellar
you know we're always getting new
features and that's why i encourage you
features and that's why I encourage you
to attend meridian and find out more
about it so these are just an example of
of some of the businesses that are part
of the Stellar ecosystem today
and i did not move that slide here it is
there you go
it's like watching a show
there we go
these companies are located all over the
world and so this this global ecosystem
has evolved to serve a lot of different
needs
uncle do you want me to talk briefly
about
Stellar quest and the community fund or
do you want to talk about that since it
is your area of expertise
sure yeah let me let me let me
do you want to put up the slide
sure I'm glad too
so this is totally cool go ahead
yeah sure thing so yeah so Stellar
quest telequest is a fun way and
gamified way to learn tech of Stellar
so currently like if you sign up
you can
go through practice challenges that
makes it easy to kind of learn the tech
of Stellar and you don't need to know
how to code so
while doing it while completing these
fun quests you can earn rad
like collect red nfts and also during
live series you can collect earn
excellent
so it's actually very fun next slime
is the native currency of Stellar
i definitely
I definitely
recommend anyone who is like watching
this to go to quest.org
at least go through the first year
seriously how you feel because then you
get really like oh this is how ledger
works and you'll actually work with
tools
that we call the laboratory where you
can submit transactions directly to
the blockchain so yeah very exciting and
then you get a good feel of how things
are looking
yeah so i guess we can go to the
yeah so I guess we can go to the
seller community fund as well
yes i will eventually turn this slide
yes I will eventually turn this slide
sorry about that
yeah so you know if you do enjoy like
building on Stellar and i think like you
building on Stellar and I think like you
know jim also mentioned having some kind
of hackathon at some point i think
of hackathon at some point I think
you should definitely check out
communityfun.seller.org it's an open
application grant program for
Stellar-based projects
really to like you can build and grow
your project and then submit it to the
scf and then we also have a really
vibrant discord community where you can
go in and also check out all the other
projects currently like our
submission deadline is november 21st
which is obviously coming up but
definitely after about i think like
definitely after about I think like
november 24th you can check out this
rounds selects and yeah check out
what people are all building so
community fun is really cool because the
community itself votes on which projects
they like best and so while stf like we
provide the funds the communicate
community allocates it so it's a really
investing in the community's vision
that was it for me thanks so much
thanks
thank you so much anka
so `stellar.org` is really the place to
learn all about everything that's going
on at Stellar from news to developer
relations there's a pretty large
knowledge base there that talks about
all these different use cases there's
cool videos all kinds of things so yeah
i invite you to access `stellar.org`
I invite you to access `stellar.org`
anytime
and learn more about Stellar's open
network for storing and moving money